'Edit this Matt and I will kill you'


http://www.aujaecocenter.org/index.php/the-story-of-the-valley/neolithic-jericho-and-the-origins-of-civilization
// First Link Important Section ; 

THE WALL OF JERICHO

Jericho was among the first places on earth where this transition took place.

It was not the only farming community in the world at that date. The earliest domestication of wild cereal probably took place to the north of here, in the Karacadag mountains of Turkey, or in the Euphrates valley around the Syrian site of Tell Abu Hureyra. And there were surely other early farming villages, still unknown to archaeologists, scattered across the Levant.

At the beginning of the Neolithic era people had already been living around Jericho’s spring for centuries. Slowly, this crude encampment of brushwood huts was transformed into one of the world’s first real villages.

And then, around 10,000 years ago, the Neolithic farmers of Jericho did something absolutely unprecedented: they raised a massive stone wall around the town.

Built from stones hauled from the banks of the Jordan River more than a mile away, this wall was 4 – 5 meters high and surrounded by a deep ditch. It included a tower almost 9m tall, with an internal staircase of 22 stone steps.

Within the wall, the people of Jericho lived in circular houses made from mud brick and plaster. Inside their homes there were fire pits for cooking, and stone querns for grinding flour. If they were making bread, they may also have been fermenting grain and drinking beer. There was no pottery, but they kept seeds and pulses in baskets and skins, or in silos made from mud and straw. They stored tools here, too; spears and nets for fishing in the river, flint-tipped arrows, and sickles for reaping the fields. From the loom weights we know there were weavers among them, though the textiles made in Neolithic Jericho have all perished.

Along with the tools of everyday life, some kept more precious objects in their homes: blades made from obsidian, a glassy volcanic rock from the Anatolian mountains, and cowrie shells from the Red Sea, and pieces of turquoise from the Sinai. They must have bartered for these things with the salt and bitumen that were so abundant in their own territory, along trade routes that followed the north-south contour of the Rift Valley.

It may have been to protect of this slow accumulation of wealth that the wall was built. Kathleen Kenyon, the British archaeologist who excavated here in the 1950s, certainly thought so. Later archaeologists have suggested that it was raised to protect Jericho’s mud brick homes against floods rather than against raids, or even that the tower may have had a religious function.

Whatever its purpose, the scale and sophistication of this project displays a degree of confidence and collaboration had never been seen before. At this date, the world was still a wilderness populated mainly by tribes of hunting and foraging nomads. As they looked down on the walled city in the plain, they must have stared in wonder.

//


http://antiquity.ac.uk/projgall/barkai327/
//2nd Link - The Wall ; 

The Neolithic tower of Jericho is one of the earliest stone-built monuments in the history of humankind. It was constructed some
11 000 years ago within a village of settled hunter-gatherers, on the threshold of the transition to agriculture, food production 
and growing social complexity. Since its discovery the tower was conceived by archaeologists and the public as the oldest manifestation 
of the new Neolithic order but its specific purpose, as well as the mechanism behind its construction and function, remaind undiciphered.
We have recently argued that the tower of Jericho was constructed as a geograpgical beacon and as a celestial marker, connecting the early 
Neolithic inhabitants of Jericho to their immediate lanscape and the cosmos (Barkai & Liran 2008). Here we argue that the tower was
placed exactly where the darkness began to shade the settlement on the summer solstice. Our analysis might lead to the conclusion that 
the mechanism behind the constuction of the tower was aimed at transforming the metaphysical fears of Neolithic humans into an actual 'edifice of power'.

//


http://www.motherbird.com/jerichohst.html '  http://www.localhistories.org/jericho.html
//Information Links - Foot notes/facts ;

The people who live in Jericho call it Riha. In 1980 Jericho had about 12,000 people - compared to only about 100 people in 1870
One of the main reasons for the growth of Jericho since 1900 is the introduction of new crops - such as bananas, lemons and tomatoes, making the town a market gardening center.
Neolithic Jericho probably had a population of about 2,000-3,000 many of whom would have been part-time soldiers. They would have fought with spears and bows and arrows.
Jericho must have been wealthy for its people to build such fortifications, the first in the world.
Before 6,000 BC the people of Jericho also kept skulls in shrines. The skulls had plaster 'faces' added to them to make them look lifelike and they had cowrie shells in their eye sockets. We do not know why these plastered skulls were made. The people of Jericho may have practiced some form of ancestor worship but we will never know.
After 6,000 BC Jericho was abandoned for hundreds of years but it was occupied again by 5,000 BC. By 4,000 BC people had learned to use bronze and by 3,000 BC writing was invented. The prehistoric period of Jericho came to an end.

//

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Jericho
// Battle of Jericho, everyone was executed except the traitor Rahab(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rahab)




